The village government is the organizer of government affair and the interests of the local communitycarried out by the village head and village apparatus at the village level. The village government is part of the government is part of the government system of the unitary state of the republic of Indonesia. The village government is also the most importan part of providing services for the community organized by the village apparatus as the most important element in the village government whell. While the implementation of the village Government is supported by the optimal performance of village official so that the implementation of the village government can be carried out optimally.village government implementation activities in the biyuku village office are organized by the village head and village apparatus according to the village regulation number 15 of 2019 the organizational structure and work procedures of the biyuku village government, the biyuku village government organizational structure consists of the village head , the village secretary,3 (three) section heads,3 (three) heads of affairs, 2 (two ) hamlet heads with a total of 10 village officials. Identification of the problem of this, namely : 1. The level of discipiline of the village apparatus is still not in accordance with rules 2. Tupoksi desabelum devinces are carried out in accordance with the position of village apparatus 3. Lack of understanding and competence The purpose of this study is to describe and analyze the performance of the village apparatus in the management of village funds in biyuku village, suak tapeh district, Banyuasin Regency, Sout Sumatera Selatan province. This research is theoretically eseful in order to be able to contribute knowledge, especially public administration in the field of public service management, while practically as input for other interested parties to be able to improve performance inproviding public services to the community. The method used is a qualitative research method with descriptive analysis. Data management is carried out based on the acquisition of data through observastion interviews, documentation , and drawing onclusions . the results of this study show that based on the result of the study and discussions that has been conducted regarding the performance of the village apparatus in the management of village funds in biyuku village, suak tapeh district, banyuasin regency, south Sumatera Province as Follows : (1). The performance of the biyuku village apparatus regarding the needs of the communyti in providing services is good enough. (2) Responsiveness of the biyuku village apparatus regarding the needs of the community in proiding services is good enough and is in accordance with the needs of the community (3) Service prosedures provided by the biyuku village apparatus concerning the time of service in terms of attendance that is often late (4) Factors that hamper the performance of biyuku village apparatus lack of human resources in terms of lack of responsibility from village officials.