Kegiatan pengabdian kepada masyarakat (PkM) ini ditujukan untuk meningkatkan pengetahuan dan ketrampilan siswa SMK Kesehatan bantul dalam membuat produk komersial olahan permen jelly dari tanaman herbal baik dari sisi produksinya maupun pemasarannya untuk meningkatkan kemampuan siswa berwirausaha. Metode pelatihan dilakukan dengan: pemaparan materi dan praktek. Pelatihan kewirausahaan diselenggarakan di SMK Kesehatan Bantul pada tanggal 4 dan 25 Oktober 2023 diikuti oleh 75 siswa. Untuk mengukur peningkatan pengetahuan sebelum pelatihan dilakukan pretes dan setelah pelatihan dilakukan postes. Hasil PkM menunjukkan setelah pelatihan terjadi peningkatan pengetahuan para siswa SMK Kesehatan Bantul sekitar 10,2 % meliputi pengertian dari permen herbal, bagian tanaman yang dimanfaatkan untuk kesehatan, dan khasiat dari beberapa tanaman herbal untuk menjaga kesehatan. Rata-rata pemahaman para siswa meningkat 5% setelah mendapat pelatihan pembuatan desain produk dengan menggunakan Canva serta meningkat 8% setelah mendapat pelatihan penggunaan media sosial untuk pemasaran produk. Kesimpulannya, pelatihan pembuatan permen jelly herbal dan digital marketing telah meningkatkan pengetahuan dan keterampilan siswa SMK Kesehatan Bantul. Increasing the entrepreneurial competence of Bantul Health Vocational School students through jelly candy-making and digital marketing training Abstract: This community service activity was aimed at increasing the knowledge and skills of Bantul Health Vocational School students in making commercial products made from herbal jelly candy, both in terms of production and marketing, to increase students' entrepreneurial abilities. The training method was carried out through the presentation of material and practice. Entrepreneurship training was held at the Bantul Health Vocational School on October 4 and 25, 2023, and was attended by 75 students. To measure the increase in knowledge before training, a pretest was carried out, and after training, a posttest was carried out. The results of the community service showed that after the training, there was an increase in the knowledge of Bantul Health Vocational School students by around 10.2%, including the meaning of herbal candy, parts of plants used for health, and the properties of several herbal plants for maintaining health. On average, students' understanding increased by 5% after receiving training in making product designs using Canva and increased by 8% after receiving training in using social media for product marketing. In conclusion, training in making herbal jelly candy and digital marketing has increased the knowledge and skills of Bantul Health Vocational School students.