Dalam pengembangan eksisting bangunan Gereja sangatlah dibutuhkan perencanaan/ desain struktur yang matang. Hal ini menjadi dasar dari kegiatan Pengabdian Kepada Masyarakat (PkM) Fakultas Teknik yang di adakan di Gereja HKBP Ressort Perumnas Klender. Adapun tujuan dari kegiatan ini adalah membantu pembuatan gambar as-built drawing 2-D, 3-D, dan pengecekan struktur dalam rangka pengembangan Gereja HKBP Ressort Perumnas Klender, dimana gambar tersebut akan digunakan oleh pihak Gereja untuk pengembangan dan perbaikan Gereja di masa yang akan datang. Metode yang digunakan dalam PkM ini adalah analisis deskriptif. Tim PkM melakukan peninjauan, pengukuran eksisting bangunan di lapangan, menggambarkannya dalam bentuk 2-D dan 3-D, dan pengecekan eksisting struktur gereja (kolom, pelat, balok) yang nantinya digunakan di dalam pengembangan bangunan baru Gereja pada daerah konsistori. Hasil dari PKM ini adalah denah eksisting Gereja dalam bentuk 2-D dan 3-D, serta analisa struktur bangunan dari segi arsitektur dan sipil. Design development of building and structural inspection of HKBP Ressort Perumnas Klender Church Abstract: In developing existing church buildings, careful planning/structural design is very necessary. This is one of the objectives of the Faculty of Engineering's Community Service (PKM) which is held at the HKBP Ressort Perumnas Klender Church. The activities carried out are drawing as-built drawings in 2-D and 3-D and checking the structure in the development plan for the HKBP Ressort Perumnas Klender Church, where the Church can use these drawings for the development and improvement of the Church in the future. The method used in this PKM is to inspect and measure existing buildings in the field, draw floor plans for the 1st and 2nd floors of the church, and then draw plans for the development of the church, as well as 3-D drawings. Apart from that, checks were also carried out on the existing church structures (columns, plates, beams), which would later be used in the development of new church buildings in the church consistory area. The results of this PKM are 2-dimensional and 3-dimensional church development plans as well as an analysis of the building structure from an architectural and civil perspective.