PERAN ORANG TUA DAN PENDIDIK DALAM MENERAPKAN PERILAKU DISIPLIN TERHADAP ANAK USIA DINI

Authors: Ernie Martsiswati, Yoyon Suryono
Year: 2014

Penelitian ini bertujuan untuk mengungkapkan adanya hubungan peran orang tua dan pendidik dalam menerapkan perilaku disiplin terhadap anak usia dini. Menggunakan metode penelitian kuantitatif. Pengumpulan data dengan wawancara terstruktur skala Guttman, observasi dengan dokumentasi pada 35 anak usia dini di Kelompok Bermain Surya Marta Yogyakarta. Hasil penelitian adalah tingkat keeratan hubungan antara peran orang tua dengan perilaku disiplin anak usia dini adalah sangat lemah dan hubungannya berbanding terbalik, tingkat keeratan hubungan antara peran pendidik terhadap perilaku disiplin anak adalah lemah, dan hubungannya searah, tingkat keeratan antara hubungan peran orang tua dan pendidik secara bersama-sama adalah lemah dan hubungannya tidak searah. Rekomendasi hasil penelitian kepada orang tua dan pendidik supaya mengoptimalkan perannya dengan memberikan arahan kepada anak usia dini dalam berperilaku disiplin, mengadakan hubungan dengan bekerja sama dalam menerapkan perilaku disiplin terhadap anak usia dini.Kata Kunci: peran orang tua dan pendidik, perilaku disiplin, anak usia dini. THE ROLES OF PARENTS AND EDUCATORS IN THE APPLICATION OF THE DISCIPLINE BEHAVIOR OF EARLY AGED CHILDRENAbstractThis study aims to investigate the relationship of parents and educators’ roles in the application of the discipline behavior in early aged children The study employed the quantitative research method. The data collecting techniques included structured interviews using the Guttman scale and observations with documentation on 35 early aged children in Surya Marta Play Group Yogyakarta. The results of the study are as follows. The level of the relationship strength between parents’ roles and the discipline behavior of early aged children is very low and the relationship of the two variables is negative. The level of the relationship strength between educators’ roles and the discipline behavior of early aged children is low and the relationship of the two variables is positive. The level of the relationship strength of parentsand educators’ roles as an aggregate is low and the relationship is negative. The recommendations from the results of the study are as follows: parents and educators should optimize their roles by giving guidance on the discipline behavior to early aged children. Parents and educators are expected to establish cooperative relationship in the application of the discipline behavior of early aged children.Keywords: the roles parents and educators, dicipline behavior, early aged children