Pengaruh Motivasi, Disiplin, Dan Kepuasan Kerja Terhadap Kinerja Karyawan Di PT. Angkasa Pura II (Persero) Kantor Cabang Kualanamu

Authors: Program Studi Magister Manajemen, Universitas Muhammadiyah Sumatera Utara Medan, Indonesia, Sandhi Fialy Harahap, Satria Tirtayasa, Program Studi Magister Manajemen, Universitas Muhammadiyah Sumatera Utara Medan, Indonesia
Year: 2020

Based on preliminary research conducted on performance, problems were found in accordance with performance indicators, including: the quantity of employees who are still considered to be inadequate to support the completion of work tasks in accordance with the time has been determined, found that the quality of work produced by employees is low, there are some jobs that are produced are still not optimal, the low productivity of an innovation organization is hampered, morale is decreasing, which in this whole will hamper the performance of employees in the company Angkasa Pura II (Persero) kualanamu branch office. The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of motivation, discipline and job satisfaction on employee performance at PT. Angkasa Pura II (Persero) Kualanamu Branch Office. This research uses associative research methods with quantitative descriptive approaches. The type of data used in this study are primary data and secondary data. Primary data obtained from the processing directly from the object. While secondary data is data that researchers obtain from books and other data sources related to the discussion of this study. Research conducted to determine the effect of partially and simultaneously between the independent variable to the dependent variable. The results of this study indicate that partially it can be concluded that motivation, discipline, and job satisfaction have a positive and significant effect on performance. From the results of this study indicate that it can simultaneously be concluded that motivation, discipline and job satisfaction simultaneously have a significant effect on performance.