Heat Shock Protein A12B Protects Vascular Endothelial Cells Against Sepsis-Induced Acute Lung Injury in Mice

Authors: Yi Chen, Lei Wang, Qiuxiang Kang, Xu Zhang, Guifang Yu
Year: 2017

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary endothelial injury is a critical process in the pathogenesis of acute lung injury (ALI) during sepsis. Heat shock protein A12B (HSPA12B) is mainly expressed in endothelial cells and protects against several harmful factors. However, the effects of HSPA12B in sepsis-induced ALI and its potential mechanisms of action remain unclear. METHODS: For in vivo experiments, C57BL/6 mice were randomly divided into four groups (n=15): a sham operation group, a cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) group, a HSPA12B siRNA-CLP group and a negative control (NC) siRNA-CLP group. The mice were treated by nasal inhalation of 2-OMe-modified HSPA12B siRNA or NC siRNA. Sepsis was induced by CLP. Samples were harvested 24 and 48 hours post-CLP surgery. Pathological changes and scoring of lung tissue samples were monitored using hematoxylin and eosin staining. Levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines (e.g., interleukin (IL)-1β, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α, and IL-6) and myeloperoxidase activity in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid were analyzed by ELISA. Pulmonary edema was assessed using a wet-to-dry weight ratio. Neutrophils and alveolar macrophages were counted using flow cytometry. Pulmonary endothelial cell apoptosis was detected by TUNEL staining. Expression levels of MAPK family signaling molecules and caspase-3 were measured by Western blot analysis. In addition, 7-day survival was recorded. For in vitro experiments, human umbilical vein endothelial cells were pre-transfected with HSPA12B siRNA or pIRES2-EGFP-HSPA12B-Flag plasmid and treated with lipopolysaccharide; subsequently, the expression levels of MAPK family signaling molecules and caspase-3 were measured by Western blotting. RESULTS: Nasal inhalation of nano-polymer-encapsulated HSPA12B siRNA specifically downregulated mRNA and protein expression levels of HSPA12B in lung tissues. The administration of HSPA12B siRNA aggravated lung pathological injury, upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokine (e.g., IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6) expression, and increased myeloperoxidase activity, neutrophil infiltration, pulmonary edema, and pulmonary endothelial cell apoptosis. Additionally, HSPA12B knockdown worsened survival after CLP surgery. The potential protective mechanisms of HSPA12B may involve the inhibition of ERK phosphorylation and caspase-3 activation in vivo and in vitro. CONCLUSION: HSPA12B protected against sepsis-induced ALI. The potential mechanism may be partly due to the inhibition of ERK phosphorylation and caspase-3 activation. These findings provide a potential therapeutic target for treating sepsis.