Principles of Mobile Communication

Authors: Stüber, Gordon L
Year: 2002

Principles of Mobile Communication, Third Edition, is an authoritative treatment of the of mobile communications. This book stresses the fundamentals of physical-layer wireless and mobile communications engineering that are important for the design of any wireless system. This book differs from others in the field by stressing mathematical modeling and analysis. It includes many detailed derivations from first principles, extensive literature references, and provides a level of depth that is necessary for graduate students wishing to pursue research on this topic. The book's focus will benefit students taking formal instruction and practicing engineers who are likely to already have familiarity with the standards and are seeking to increase their knowledge of this important subject. Major changes from the second edition: 1. Updated discussion of wireless standards (Chapter 1). 2. Updated treatment of land mobile radio propagation to include space-time correlation functions, mobile-to-mobile (or vehicle-to-vehicle) channels, multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO) channels, improved simulation models for land mobile radio channels, and 3G cellular simulation models. 3. Updated treatment of modulation techniques and power spectrum to include Nyquist pulse shaping and linearized Gaussian minimum shift keying (LGMSK). 4. Updated treatment of antenna diversity techniques to include optimum combining, non-coherent square-law combining, and classical beamforming. 5. Updated treatment of error control coding to include space-time block codes, the BCJR algorithm, bit interleaved coded modulation, and space-time trellis codes. 6. Updated treatment of spread spectrum to include code division multiple access (CDMA) multi-user detection techniques. 7. A completely new chapter on multi-carrier techniques to include the performance of orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM) on intersymbol interference (ISI) channels, OFDM residual ISI cancellation, single-carrier frequency domain equalization (SC-FDE), orthogonal frequency division multiple access (OFDMA) and single-carrier frequency division multiple access (SC-FDMA). 8. Updated discussion of frequency planning to include OFDMA frequency planning. 9. Updated treatment of CDMA cellular systems to include hierarchical CDMA cellular architectures and capacity analysis. 10. Updated treatment of radio resource management to include CDMA soft handoff analysis. Includes numerous homework problems throughout.